BYOB 3.0.8 minor release notes

- See file README-BYOB.txt for general version 3.0 release notes -

This minor release contains the following bugfixes and enhancements:

(1) Pause / Resume

processes forked by LAUNCH blocks can now be paused and resumed along with all other threads. Thanks, majormax, for finding and reporting this bug.

(2) Internal Errors

fixed two "internal error" bugs that sometimes occurred in the Block Editor (isTransparentAt:) and when attempting to delete custom block definitions. Thanks, Luke and Stefano for detecting these.

(3) new cool SICP example project by Brian - CountChange!




BYOB 3.0.7 minor release notes

(1) Exporting Sprites

Exporting a sprite whose custom block definitions contain references to another sprite (e.g. "x position OF Sprite1") no longer throws an exception. Thanks for Moti Ben-Ari for finding and reporting this bug. 

Caveat: Like in vanilla Scratch such external sprite references get *removed* in the export process, i.e. not even the name of the referenced sprite is remembered in the exported code. For all pratical matters this means that all exported code containing plain __ OF __ blocks must be edited and fixed again once it is imported into another project. 

Workaround: Like in vanilla Scratch you can create a (sprite-local) variable containing the name of the referenced sprite and place it into the OF block's right argument slots. Then, after importing the exported sprite into another project, you can set the variable to the name of whichever other sprite it should refer to now. That way you don't have to edit the custom blocks again (until we invent first-class sprites :-) ).


(2) Localization

Thanks to Jean-Jacques Valliet (French) and Manuel Menezes de Sequeira (Portuguese) for additional translations and unicode-rendering related bug reports. 

(3) Unicode rendering

The language menu now correctly displays language names with accented characters. 

Input templates in custom reporter block prototypes now correctly render accented characters. Thanks to Manuel Menezes de Sequeira for reporting, explaining and patiently testing this bug.


(4) Custom block prototype editing

Custom reporter blocks that have just a single space character as label no longer throw an exception and also no longer crash BYOB upon saving the project. Thanks to Josh Paley and his son for discovering this bug.

Right clicking on an input template ("var blob") in a custom block prototype now behaves exactly the same as left-clicking on it, i.e. it lets you edit or delete the blob instead of displaying a menu with obsolete choices. Thanks to Moti Ben-Ari for pointing this out.